README.md, before:

# Shelly Data Gateway

> A lightweight gateway to collect, retain, and forward data
> from [Shelly](https://www.shelly.com/) IoT devices.

Shelly Data Gateway enables efficient data collection from Shelly
devices when using MQTT instead of the cloud. It retains data sent
spontaneously by devices and organizes it
into [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io/), which can be forwarded to
various sinks (currently, MQTT is supported).

- Collects and retains data from Shelly IoT devices.
- Converts data into Cloud Events format.
- Supports forwarding to MQTT sinks.

## Running

With the configuration stored in a file `.env`, the tool can be started
as follows:

```bash
docker run --rm \
  --env-file .env \
  mrtux/shelly-data-gateway:latest
```

Please replace `latest` with the version you want to run. The latest
version is not guaranteed to be stable.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome!
Please submit your changes via a pull request (PR)

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).

© 2021-2025 [Stefan Haun](https://github.com/penguineer) and
contributors.

Commit message:

Add documentation for environment variables

README.md, after:

# Shelly Data Gateway

> A lightweight gateway to collect, retain, and forward data
> from [Shelly](https://www.shelly.com/) IoT devices.

Shelly Data Gateway enables efficient data collection from Shelly
devices when using MQTT instead of the cloud. It retains data sent
spontaneously by devices and organizes it
into [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io/), which can be forwarded to
various sinks (currently, MQTT is supported).

- Collects and retains data from Shelly IoT devices.
- Converts data into Cloud Events format.
- Supports forwarding to MQTT sinks.

## Configuration

The following environment variables are expected:

* `LOG_LEVEL` Log level for the application. Possible values are `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `critical`, `notset`. Defaults to `info`.
* `MQTT_HOST` Name of the MQTT host

## Running

With the configuration stored in a file `.env`, the tool can be started
as follows:

```bash
docker run --rm \
  --env-file .env \
  mrtux/shelly-data-gateway:latest
```

Please replace `latest` with the version you want to run. The latest
version is not guaranteed to be stable.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome!
Please submit your changes via a pull request (PR)

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).

© 2021-2025 [Stefan Haun](https://github.com/penguineer) and
contributors.
